DOC Validate DBFields (#596)
silverstripe/developer-docs: en/02_Developer_Guides/00_Model/04_Data_Types_and_Casting.md

}
```

Most `DBField` subclasses will be validated using a [`FieldValidator`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Validation\FieldValidation\FieldValidator) subclass which is call as part of the `DataObject::validate()` method. This means that when you set a value on a `DBField` subclass, it will be validated against the constraints of that field. If a value is invalid, a [`ValidationException`](api:SilverStripe\Core\Validation\ValidationException) will be thrown.

## Available types

> | Field | Description | Validation | API Reference |

Author: Note for the sake of brevity, I have chosen not to define any conversions that take place in `setValue()`, for instance `'t'` would be converted to `true` for `DBBoolean`

> | Field | API link | Description | Validation | API Reference |

Reviewer: Table doesn't render correctly, I think there's more header than there are columns

Reviewer: "API Reference" is a duplicate of "API link" probably

Author: Has been removed

| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | [`DBBigInt`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBBigInt) | An 8-byte signed integer field | Must be an int between -9223372036854775808 and 9223372036854775807 |

Reviewer: Please keep the links, but remove the `DB` part from the text, or add back to old column (but keep it right next to this one)

Author: Have added new column to the left for what's defined in the $db schema

> | `BigInt` | An 8-byte signed integer field | Must be an int between -9223372036854775808 and 9223372036854775807 | [`DBBigInt`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBBigInt) |

Reviewer: Either move the "API Reference" to be directly right of the "Field" column, or else just have the "Field" column references be links to the API

Reviewer: Still hasn't been done or responded to

Author: Updated

| `Boolean` | A boolean field stored as a tinyint | Must be a boolean | [`DBBoolean`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBBoolean) |
| `Currency` | A number with 2 decimal points of precision, designed to store currency values | Must be a decimal | [`DBCurrency`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBCurrency) |
| `Date` | A date field | Must be a valid date in `Y-m-d` format | [`DBDate`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBDate) |
| `Datetime` | A date/time field | Must be a valid datetime in `Y-m-d H:i:s` format | [`DBDatetime`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBDatetime) |

> | `DBClassName` | A special enumeration for storing class names | Must be a valid subclass name | [`DBClassName`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBClassName) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `DBClassName` | A special enumeration for storing class names | Must be a valid FQCN of a `DataObject` subclass | [`DBClassName`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBClassName) |
```
Same with the varchar variant below

Author: Updated

| `DBClassNameVarchar` | A special enumeration for storing class names in a `Varchar` field | Must be a valid subclass name | [`DBClassNameVarchar`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBClassNameVarchar) |
| `Decimal` | A decimal number | Must be a decimal. | [`DBDecimal`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBDecimal) |

> | `Double` | A floating point number with double precision | Not validated | [`DBDouble`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBDouble) |

Reviewer: We don't validate it at all? Please use a relevant validator. Even just straight numeric validator would be better than nothing.

Reviewer: Looks like there are some others below that also lack validation. Please give them appropriate validation instead.

Author: Have added NumericFieldValidator to DBFloat + DBDouble, will redo kitchen sink run shortly

DBText, DBHTMLText and DBHTMLFragment actually already has StringFieldValidator on them, have updated docs

| `HTMLFragment` | A variable-length string of up to 2MB, designed to store HTML. Doesn't process [shortcodes](/developer_guides/extending/shortcodes/) | Must be a string | [`DBHTMLText`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBHTMLText) |
| `HTMLText` | A variable-length string of up to 2MB, designed to store HTML. Processes [shortcodes](/developer_guides/extending/shortcodes/) | Must be a string | [`DBHTMLText`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBHTMLText) |
| `HTMLVarchar` | A variable-length string of up to 255 characters, designed to store HTML. Can process [shortcodes](/developer_guides/extending/shortcodes/) with additional configuration | String must not be longer than specified length | [`DBHTMLVarchar`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBHTMLVarchar) |
| `Int` | A 32-bit signed integer field | Must be an int between -2147483648 and 2147483647 | [`DBInt`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBInt) |
| `IP` | An IP field | Must be a valid IP address, either IPv4 or IPv6 | [`DBIp`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBIp) |
| `Locale` | A field for storing locales | Must be a valid locale | [`DBLocale`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBLocale) |

> | `Money` | Similar to Currency, but with localisation support | Currency string must not be greater than 4 characters, amount must be a decimal | [`DBMoney`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBMoney) |

Reviewer: Isn't it 4 digits including the numbers after the decimal place? e.g. `12.34` is 5 characters. Looking at the framework PR, there's nothing specific for `DBMoney` so why does it say here it has specific validation? Probably just update to use the same wording used for its parent class.

Sorry I didn't notice this before.

Author: Funny, I had it wrong it's actually 3 characters

```php
class DBMoney extends DBComposite
{
    private static array $composite_db = [
        'Currency' => 'Varchar(3)',
        'Amount' => 'Decimal(19,4)'
    ];
```
Currency refers to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_4217, though isn't validated that it that so it's just validated as 3 characters  - will update docs

| `MutliEnum` | [`DBMultiEnum`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBMultiEnum) | An enumeration set of strings that can store multiple values | Must be one of the allowable values |
| `Percentage` | [`DBPercentage`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBPercentage) | A decimal number between 0 and 1 that represents a percentage | Must be a decimal between 0 and 1 |

> | `DBPolymorphicForeignKey` | [`DBPolymorphicForeignKey`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBPolymorphicForeignKey) | A special ForeignKey class that handles relations with arbitrary class types | Must be an int |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `PolymorphicForeignKey` | [`DBPolymorphicForeignKey`](api:SilverStripe\ORM\FieldType\DBPolymorphicForeignKey) | A special ForeignKey class that handles relations with arbitrary class types | Must be an int |
```
I'm guessing - didn't double check the yml.

Reviewer: Have checked now since this wasn't fixed last round, and I'm correct, it shouldn't have the `DB`

Author: Opps, fixed
